And here we go! The last but not least, we are going to talk about the faeria itself.

== The faeria ==
The faeria is of course those blue balls you need to harvest to play your most powerful cards. But you might wonder what it is, why they spawn on whirlpools, or why you need it at all?

Here’s the short answer: the faeria is divine energy. When Orobouros got sealed after he tried to destroy the world, the gods saw that was still able to continue consuming his own tail, thus reducing the size of the world every day. To prevent the world's extinction, they decided to push all their energy in to the world in order to force him back. But doing this caused the gods to fall in to a deep slumber.

The divine energy fell into the water, created the whirlpools you all know. The faeria is on the bottom of the sea, but sometimes the whirlpools pull up some faeria, creating blue shiny balls. Also, when the water evaporated, some particles of faeria went up with it, and fell with the rain into the different continents of the world. The contact of the faeria with some creatures significantly improved their development, and a lot of new species were born only thanks to the faeria. Now, some of them even depend on faeria, and can’t survive without it.

But even though the explosion of life created by the faeria was good, it also had an issue: not all of it fell down to the ground after it evaporated, but kept floating up and up, creating the stars, and finally reaching a giant black hole and disappearing. So, the amount of faeria in the world is reduced every day, giving more freedom to Orobouros and bringing the world that much closer to extinction. Nobody knows what happens to the faria once it is used or destroyed. Maybe the energy is returned to the gods and they will be able to push Orobouros back again, or maybe it is lost forever.

But only a small amount of faeria disappears this way, and very slowly, so it wouldn't have been such a problem if the living creatures of the world didn't start to use it. The Gabrians were the first who researched the faeria and its possible uses. They first stocked up on faeria in gigantic cisterns, but they couldn't catch the faeria floating upwards. The day they discovered how to catch the faeria escaping to the surface marked the beginning of the faeria revolution.

With the divine energy, every race was able to do incredible things, using it in very different ways. The already addicted creatures became stronger but needed more of it to stay alive. Goblins searched how the faeria could be used in an offensive way. For Solars it was a true miracle. They found a way to create mirrors that increased the daylight to the point it was always day in their land, so the night would never fall again... And for the humans of Mîrnast, the engineers discovered how great the faeria was as fuel.

But the fact remains that nobody knows what happens with the used faeria, does it go back to the ground and then the water? Does it evaporate, does it go back to the gods… Or perhaps it simply disappears? The Oradrims, lead by the Djidan order, think that is what happens, and that the living races of the universe are simply destroying it very fast. For this reason, they first refused to use faeria at all. But they quickly became very weak compared to the other races, and weren't able to win any kind of battle anymore. To counter this issue, they adopted a new strategy that is very fast and aggressive, destroying their opponent before they can react with their advanced faeria technology. In the end though, they understood that even their new strategy was not enough to win fights, and they succumbed to using faeria as well. The Oradrim say that the use of faeria is only for beating their enemies and becoming strong enough to force the rest of the world to abandon it. A small sacrifice in the present, in order to save the future. 


And that's it! Of course i could tell you more about every species of Faëria (the development of some of them is even completely finished), but as everything can still change, and as I don't want to spoil you all the details, I'll stop this series of threads here. I hope you enjoyed it and expect way more about the lore during the beta (this time, you'll be able to read it directly from the game, hopefully ).

== References ==
[http://www.faeria.net/forum/showthread.php?tid=136 http://www.faeria.net/forum/showthread.php?tid=136]